[Music]
Hello, welcome to Chat in the Arena, your
weekly podcast where we recommend,
exchange ideas, and discuss content we've read,
listened to, and watched, always bringing a
product perspective to the discussion. I'm Artur, and
finally, the cold has arrived here in São
Paulo! I'm... and unfortunately, the cold has
arrived because I'm very sensitive to the cold, man,
I suffer at this time of year. And in
today's program, we're going to talk about a
topic: vision, conviction, and hype in
product development. That's it.
And last week, several
listeners posted where they were
listening to the podcast from, and we liked it. We
thought it was very good, very cool, and we'd
like it to be repeated, right? So
when you listen to this
week's episode, post where you're listening from so
more people will come and more
people will want to press play, and it will
be great. And it's awesome to see
people listening while exercising,
driving, getting ripped (
Lavino got ripped!), and getting
smarter. That's the perfect connection,
right? I also... one of the places I
listen to podcasts the most is when I'm at the gym,
when I'm running... and also bringing a...
We usually give this message at the
end, right? If you're
not already following the
podcast on your favorite platform, whether it's Spotify,
YouTube, Substack, or Apple Podcasts,
go ahead and follow us so
you get notified. Depending on where
you listen, click the bell icon, just like
YouTubers do. There's a bell icon on
Spotify and a bell icon on YouTube. Click there
to be notified every time a
new episode comes out. Sometimes
we release episodes on Wednesday mornings, but
sometimes on Tuesday nights, so click
there to make sure you do. And share the
podcast! That's what we always ask.
If each person recommends the podcast
to one more person, it really helps us
grow and reach more
people, and in the end, we get more photos of
people listening to podcasts in
different, unusual places, or maybe not so unusual. That's it.
And we have a plug this week, Artur, of
course! We're even
ahead of our time, we
had a workshop on
critical analytical thinking, and Harvard Business
Review published an article about it
after...
People launched the course, it
was certainly the training setting, and they're
saying that at least the
topics are converging, they're
trending, and the AI ​​for PM course,
one of its first slides is about 70%
accuracy, is that a lot or a little?
And Tangas, who we've already talked about
in some episodes, also
posted an article where the first
paragraph asks exactly that
question. So, if you want
to learn about current topics and from people
who are actually doing it every day, there's
the Critical and Analytical Thinking course
with me and Dudu, it will be
online live on June 29th and in person
here in São
Paulo on July 6th, and the AI ​​for PMs course online and
live on July 20th, the link is in the
description, there's that
special discount for listeners, so secure it
because they've already sold out the
first batch, just to let you know,
don't leave it to buy in the
last batch, we're warning you, you're
throwing money away if you don't
buy now! And today we won't
have the roundup.  From the news, but I don't know if
you saw, all morning and part
of the afternoon the GPT chat was down, perplexed,
a lot of services were down,
right? Chaos, chaos! Well, that's it, it
's just a reminder, like, don't count
your entire product stack on
just one supplier because if you have one, you
have none, right?
Basically, Mateus sent me a
screenshot which is a message, a
headline of jokes, which is "Millions of
people are forced to use their brains." Since it
's open, the GPT chat was
down. That's it, now let's get to the agenda. Let's go!
[Music] Okay,
the content we're going to
recommend, and which will be the basis of our
conversation today, is another podcast by
Len Rait, which we're already tired of
recommending. This episode is "
Vision, Conviction and Hype: How To Build
Zero to One Inside a Company" with
Mirica Capur, who is a mix of product
design and tech at Figma, and she was one
of the first PMs of Figma. For example,
Jak from Figma, about Miro, right?
Miro, a Figma tool.  And as I was
talking to you here in the Backstage area,
I think if I had listened to
this podcast about two months ago, maybe a
month and a half ago, it wouldn't have grabbed me
as much as it did listening to it
last week. I feel like I'm in a
moment of work challenges where it
seemed like each topic connected
in a different way with things
I've been going through or experienced
recently. And Mirica, in this podcast,
talks about things like taking ideas
from zero to one in large companies, about
how to create and materialize vision, about
culture both at the company level and in
product teams, about collaboration, and a whole
bunch of other really cool topics. So,
let's talk about what resonated
most with us, Artur. What do you want to
start with? Because there's so much, man,
I think there are millions of paths
we can go down here and talk
about.
Yeah, and By The Way, man, this
became one of my favorite episodes
of Len's podcast. I already knew her,
but man, I
had already heard some of
her stuff, but man, it's really good. I
listened to it a second time today before
recording, and...  This is as good as the
first one, you know? And it's rare for me to listen to a
podcast more than once.
But for me, the thing that really stuck with me, and
I went through
this process a while ago in my
career, was that she says you
need to understand what your product manager type is. And
man, that's really true. And coincidentally, mine is a bit similar to hers. She says she likes to take products from zero to one, and so on. And that's it, right? The
more you know yourself and know what
kind of product you like to work with, the more
companies are growing
rapidly, so you'll have
less process, you'll have more
drumming to ensure what
will work and what won't. Or
if your profile is a bit
more structured, then you'll
do more support and the
evolution might not happen at the same
speed. So understanding
what your product manager type is will
help you in everything, you know? And for me, this thing has really stuck with me. It
will consequently help in
how you sell the product
internally.  How do you lobby? How do
you sell ideas? So I think it would
take not only what you like but
also what you're good at, right? And obviously,
at the beginning of your career, you won't know
because you haven't gone through
enough product cycles or worked on
enough types of products to have
that experience. These are things
you'll only really know if you live through
that kind of thing, you know, live through the
process of taking a product from scratch,
live through a product cycle that's more about
optimization, live through one that's about scaling or
market expansion. There's a course by
Refford on product strategy where he does
this separation of product phases,
which I think is very good both for
understanding that a product has
different phases and for
understanding what type of PM is best in
each phase. Then, after a
while, you understand both what you
like best, what you perform best in, and
when you get to the
hiring phase, you also understand what
kind of personality or skills a
person needs to have to do well in that
phase of the product. And sometimes,
within the same company, you'll have many
products or functionalities in
different phases.  So it's not
purely a company-wide issue, but
sometimes it involves multiple products when you
have a very large mass. I think one
thing that really resonated with me
in this content, in this podcast,
which is very relevant to the challenge I
'm facing, is the part about building and making
tangible a vision. It
's something we've been
talking about a lot at Hotmart,
specifically in the part I
cover, thinking ahead, what
product do we want to have, like how do
we create an
amazing product? And she talks a lot about how
you make that tangible, how you... she talks
specifically about it, it's not a document, you know,
how you make people
visualize that thing you want to achieve,
and she even has a phrase
that's more or less along the lines of, "If
this works, how will the world
be, how will people perceive
it?" And this connects directly to what
I think is a recurring theme
throughout the program, which is "build the hype,"
right? It's how you hype people up so
they get excited about it at
all levels of the company, of your
team that's building the business.  To the
stakeholders, the board... And how do you get
everyone on the same page, like, "What the hell is
this going to be awesome? What a cool
thing we're going to do!"
And then, a part that I think is really
important, which connects with
my more rational side, is also
connecting this, bringing this vision,
bringing what you believe in,
bringing what's building this hype,
but bringing evidence that this is
the right path. So she talks about
bringing customer testimonials,
you can eventually bring
data to support it, so it's not
just that thing of, "Oh no, this
is what I think it should
be, and this is the way," and like, I'm not giving a damn about
this rule, you know? You show the path,
you show, what are the things that
are
showing us that this is the
path, you know, that's where
we have to go? And that's it, right? To make it
tangible, and she talks about two of these things,
bringing examples and so on, and
she also gets into the part about the framework, about
how to prototype, prototype. And she
even says, "Hey, if you have
prototype stuff in high demand, [ __ ] it, right?" But
If it's already there, it's already
tangible, man, when I go into a
meeting I always open it, I do it in
PPT, I don't even open Miro, but I
open PPT and start throwing the
boxes there, oh, so you're saying it's like this, like this,
and like this, so, look, here,
write this, here, go here, but it's already there, it
starts to make it
tangible, you know, sometimes they even take a
screenshot, throw it there and then put it
on top, say, "Pu, it's going to be like this, like that, like that."
But that's it, right, making it tangible? And then it
reminded me of something else, we
were even talking before we started
recording here, that in
recent years we've seen a lot of
specialization of things, right? Oh, okay,
I'm a designer, so I do this, but I'm a
researcher, I'm like, I'm, I don't
know what,
and in the end, and then the PM too, right? Oh, there's no
design, so I don't even
put it, I just say it there, and so on, and maybe it didn't, but
in the end, what
we wanted to give was the Triad, right, which is
working very well, and that's it, the
guys are doing very well.  On the same page,
maybe it separated things too much. So what
she's saying to me is super common, it's always been
very common to have an idea, a
product, a problem to
solve, okay, sketch, sketch,
frame here, how will it look? Let's
discuss it, let's evolve this.
For me, when she says this, it's
so natural. But what we see,
talking to many other places,
many other people, it's not so natural, right?
And it's ceased to be a little natural, and
I really hope it goes back to being
natural because that's it, man, it's the
construction on top of that, right? Having something
tangible to start discussing, evolving,
or like, man, it has nothing to do
with this, let's go another way, but
to have this discussion, logically, the
answer in the end may be from
another person to have the
final word, but having somewhere to start
is good, right? I think it's really cool
how the subjects connect like that,
and along those lines, she talks about how making
the solution tangible helps in the
discussion, helps people to critique, to
think, "Hey, you thought about this, you
already thought about that." So you stop
being a little...  Ethereal in the vision and face
directly there, you know, that's the solution.
That's how things will be in the world
when this is ready, and damn, it
can change, obviously, man, you do
things, you said, right? You open a PPT and you're
going to do the thing, you just delete it and
make another PPT, you make another
prototype, you know? Even when it's
live, it's not ready, things can change and
they should change eventually, but how
much you give to this thing helps, and I
remembered something along these lines of
making things tangible when I was at
Pier, we had a dream
of making a little video of how
we wanted the
insurance experience to be 5 or 10 years from now, exactly
for that, you know, so we could capture
and make it tangible in everyone's head
with visual elements. What we
envisioned, and damn, man, if we were going to be
able to do that, we don't know, but that's what
we envisioned it should be.
And then you're going to do a backwards job,
right? Like, if I want to do
this, it's this, this is what I have to
do, but how much do these
visual elements help everyone
involved, man, even to memorize it?  From a
person's perspective, an image or video can sometimes be much
more impactful than a document or
presentation that isn't as
memorable. She or Len even talk about how
much this will help in the
coming years, because sometimes
you, as a PM, might have very low
design skills, but you can
create a prototype and
easily bring something you're
thinking to life. This isn't just for PMs; it
applies to engineers, sometimes even
to designers, coding a
super simple mockup of something. So, that's
another point they touched on, which I
thought was really cool. And then,
moving on to another point
she made,
she didn't use these exact
words, but I'll use the words
I normally use for the same thing:
testing, production testing.
She says, "Give it to the client,
which is the process of making it tangible, of speeding up the process
of putting it live."
And when I say production testing,
you don't need to put it out to everyone, okay?
She even says that in Figma, there's
a long staging process for
things, but this long process...
It makes several people use the
product and feel like they are helping
to build and shape that product, right?
And then I remembered the time at
Fit, man, back in 2014,
employees had a discount, right? To
buy Fit products, and at one
point we were really wanting to
evolve the app, when I joined, it
was precisely to structure the
app, etc., and then we blocked the discount,
the discount coupon only worked, the
employee discount coupon only
worked on the app, my brother, so many
things we discovered, the
EBG, because people used it and would
literally come to our desk and
say, "Hey, this thing isn't working
here," and we understood why,
understood what wasn't
working, but this is
also a simple thing to do, and I see
that sometimes we want to
create more complex processes
for some things that, like, are
on the next desk over there. Maybe to
help you have that zero to one, right?
Uh-huh, yeah, and sometimes, I don't know, you
work on a product that you...  It's not the
end user of the product, right? For Fit,
you use your coupon, but on Hotmart,
for example, many of us aren't
the content creators who are
creating and putting things on the
platform, right? But what we
did, for example, to try to go in that
direction, is that in product reviews, the teams
present what they did, and
we have a rule that when it's about the
user experience of the person buying, you
have to bring the mobile experience to the PR product review
because the vast
majority of our users use it on mobile,
so it's no use
showing me the pretty
desktop screen if most people
aren't seeing it. You know? And that leads to
what you said, the people themselves
start to notice, and the devs, while
working on the designs, while
drawing the PMs, while
testing, think, "Damn, this isn't the
way it should be, something's missing
here," you know? And sometimes the people
themselves, in the review, say, "Hey,
we've already seen that this is
n't so good on mobile, and we're already
fixing it for next week, or in
two weeks, so we can upload it." It didn't work.
Time to get up to this, so... what is this "
Dog feeling" thing, right? What people
call it, Fany, the whole thing, and
another one along the same lines. I'm living
a slightly different experience
than I've lived in most of my
career, which is a product that's
much more used on
desktop than on mobile, right? And that was
always my struggle with
the guys who would, damn, draw
things on a big screen on a 24-
inch Mac and stuff, and when they tested on a
cell phone, they'd test on an iPhone 14 PR, exactly.
And I even wanted to send a shout-out
to Sanchez and Amandinha from
Yellow, we worked together, and they were on my design team,
and they've always been like that. If
they were doing it, they'd have a
small computer, you know, and they'd test a lot
and stuff, and I think that's
it, right? In the end, it's... Yeah, I
remember back in the InstaCarro days, it
was like that too, man.
A good part of our users used
the app, and that was it, man.  Okay,
so we're going to start building the
small screen, and then, mobile-first, right?
Exactly. And it's not just in
concept, but in practice too, so that's
it. Okay, if you've
already managed to put the information on the small screen,
my friend, on the big screen it will be much
easier for you to do, so focus on the smaller one, right? Yeah, that's it,
but again, it's
an obvious point, isn't it? And I think
this point has a lot to do with
thinking like a customer, right? And listening to the customer.
And another thing that really struck me
that she talked about was specifically the
relationship with sales, right? Not
every product obviously has a
sales team, but it's in the universe where I
am now too. And she brings up a lot about how
you use these teams as your
partners, right? And how that informs your
product, right? So, in the
sales teams, listening directly to the
customer, right? You talked a little about
how things are very
specialized. I feel that sometimes
we get too caught up in, "Oh, to talk to the
customer I have to be doing
research, doing research
specifically," and man, it's not just you, I don't know, having
lunch or a snack.  When you're on a
call that has nothing to do with you, you have no
objective, you're just there listening, you know,
just standing there hearing what the person is
saying, but hearing it from their mouth
is different, you know? And I think that's a
topic we'll also discuss, how
much that helps you gain product
sense later, right? You hear these
things directly from the client, and then how you
use that to align the
development roadmap with what you
're hearing in calls, to bring in, "
This is coming and solves your
pain point," right? So you create this
symbiotic relationship there, which helps a
lot and eventually...  "Well, I think
everyone knows that you can't do everything a
client asks you to
do, or have the space to do at
that moment, or it will make sense to
do it at some point. And she
also says that, she says, 'Not everything
we hear we're doing. It's
prioritized, we'll prioritize it, but I have
my little backlog in Asana, which is
things I use that I go back to, it
helps later when you're
building a vision of something, when
you want to create hype, sell something
to someone, say, 'Hey, I have this
evidence right now, I've heard this
from 40 different people, you know, I've heard
this from several
different clients that this is a real pain point, you
know, we just hadn't prioritized
addressing it before.' And, making two
parentheses here, in practice,
how is this in my context today at
Docket? We have a sales team there,
and so on. A hug to the guys
here, a hug to everyone. And that's it, man. And
we, weekly, the team
participates in some meetings with
clients to precisely get
insights, to get what the clients
are thinking, points there that can..."  To
improve, or just to listen to what
the client has to say, to have backup right there
in the meeting, and that gives us a
lot of input, it helps us,
including developing new products that
we weren't looking at, and we'd
say, "Wow, there's an opportunity here
too," you know? And it's as simple as, man, a
few hours of your week in a meeting.
I've always said this, I think you
'll remember when, for me, it's an
obligation, no, no, no, it's not, you should do it.
At
least one hour of your week you
should be talking to the team,
whether it's the customer service team, the
sales team, whatever context makes
sense in your company, you know, in the
company you're in. And man, that
also helps your
product sense, it helps in hundreds of things,
and it's not just another thing to do, it should
be basic, you
should reserve space in your schedule
to do this. She even says that
depending on the size of the company, a
small company, you should be the
person talking directly to the client,
sometimes a larger company, there are certain
bureaucracies, certain
things that happen, like the client is in a
renewal process that's complicated, or
the client had a problem.  So, it's kind of
frictional, isn't it? So how do you use
what you have, right? The CS, the CX, the
sales person directly for this kind
of thing? It's something I've been
thinking about a lot. How do I
use these people more, you know? How do I get
closer to them? And I'm having this
constant flow of information
coming in, you know? It's so rich, man, there's
so much going on. Just today I was on
a call with a client to
help set up a business, and
she was saying so many things, like, "
Oh, she's pissed, but she wants
her business this way, this way
here, which is different from this other
use case we initially thought of for this
functionality." And, "Does
our functionality have to
meet this use case now, or not?
Or is it something much more complex? Do
we have a way to
solve her problem?"
So, several things... and it's what you said,
right? It helps
develop... she talks a lot about
intuition, right? For
product sense, she's very
connected to intuition. And then I even
remembered a text by...  Keigan, who is a
product specialist, demits the misfired, right?
He tries to make product sensitivity a little more tangible,
beyond
this somewhat ethereal thing. And in the end, what
he says is, man, product sensitivity is
listening to PR, damn it, your client, it's
knowing the market you're in, it's
knowing competing products, it's
knowing your product really well.
So it's being able to delve into
all these things that will give you
sensitivity there, and not necessarily
having product sensitivity for one type of
product will give you sensitivity for others, but
I think it helps a lot, right? And in the
end, it really boils down to curiosity, right, man? It's
being curious about all these things.
I don't know if we've talked about this before, but
about curiosity being
part of the job, work, work, no, again, right?
And then, going along these lines, I think there's
another topic here, which is that she
talks a lot about strong opinions and
conviction, right? And I wanted to hear, man, about
opinions,
you
swear? Do you want to talk or should I talk? Man,
I think we have
different takes on this because I think you
're a person who has always had...
I have very strong opinions. I'm a person you
know personally, right? You know I
have strong opinions, but
professionally I had difficulty
having strong opinions at work, you know? I always
wanted to be very well-
informed before expressing myself,
so I was more political, in a
way, or
less strong in my opinions. So I think it's good that
we both have this point. Do you want to start
talking about your vision of this?
In line with what she told me, it's
very obvious, very clear, what
she said definitely has
two sides to the coin. There's what
having a strong opinion can cause in
other people, and I don't, a
resistance. I don't remember which one, it's
your perception of you having a
strong opinion but already kind of losing
the game, you know, losing the game, like the
person stops saying things because,
like, "Oh, it's already decided, the person believes
in it so much, there's no point in me giving
any input on it," you know? It's just that, and at the
same time, it's who,
how do you explain your opinion?
She talks a lot about the issue of
conviction, that if you have a
strong conviction about something,
you'll probably be well-informed. Bring that
into the game and...  It's not OK to change your mind,
and that's the point, right? People, I
think, sometimes confuse this a little, like, "
Okay, I have
my opinions, I have
my convictions, I have
strong opinions, but I have no
problem changing them if you can
prove me wrong." Not even prove it, but if you
have more evidence or more
opinion and will to do
it, let's do it, you know? And I
think that's a point that, in
recent years, I've been developing a lot
more, especially being in
leadership positions, being able to
make it clear that this is
my opinion
based on x, y, z, based on x, y
experiences, and that's it, this is my opinion
versus, "This is my opinion, and it's
going to be like this." They are different things, right? They are
different things, but you and she
talk a lot about this. You need to make
that clear. From the moment you
don't make that clear, well, then you open the
door to several other things. She
says, if you are a person who has a
very clear insight and that leads you
somewhere, and other people don't
agree with you, it's
your problem, actually, you're not making
people...  "If two people are seeing the same thing
you're seeing, right?" she says. "Look, if two
people are looking at the same
thing and disagreeing—in your case,
you're doing something and the other
person disagrees with you—most
likely you don't have the
same premises. And I really like
this in documents and discussions,
talking to people right away: 'What are
the premises we're talking about here?'
Because before we discuss a solution,
whatever, let's talk about
the premises we're assuming
for this. Because if we don't
agree on the premise, we won't
agree later on, and we won't
discover later that we
disagree because of the premise.
So let's leave this premise as 'CL,' crazy,
right? And it'll be that
crazy conversation, and that's it. And when
we talk about premises, sometimes it's important to be
very explicit: who is this
product for and who isn't?
Why are we making the feature
this way and why doesn't it have
this functionality? So, this
kind of thing, and obviously, giving as much
evidence as you can
helps."  Everyone will eventually look and
say, "Okay, we agree
on the premises," or "We don't agree on
the premises, but we need a
disagreeing committee here," like you said. That's it,
and it's going to be like that because
we need to move forward, and it's better to just
disagree than to
try to reach a consensus here, you
know? And I think a good word
to wrap up here, which you mentioned a
lot, is how the things
that are your strengths can also be
your weaknesses. So she talks
specifically about being a
person of conviction, with this
point you brought up, and I think that
's very real. The things that sometimes
make you very good are also,
on the other hand, your weaknesses.
The other point there is two things
she also mentioned along the same lines
that I strongly believe in: how
attached you are to your opinion,
your power to actually let go of
things, and then, well, to understand the moment, to
understand the scenario, to understand the context, to
understand the politics, to understand various
things. And the other point, for me, actually,
is two more. In fact, there are three in the
end. The second one is...  This is something
I, man, I apply a lot. On
my first day, I always say, "
If you don't agree with what I say,
I want to know that. I don't want
you to keep it to yourself, you know?"
Raise your hand, speak up,
question things. There might be a moment
when you get to the point where you say, "Great, cool," say a lot, and then, "Okay, let's go
your way," or "Great, no, man, disagree, commit, let's go."
So that's the
second world, right? It's about how attached you are
to your opinion, how
clear you make it that you want to know
when people disagree with you, and
that's incredibly positive. And the
third, which for me says a lot about
maturity, is the word "
strong mind." PMs know how to have
difficult conversations, express their opinions, and that's it, man. It's the
disagree, the commit, and it's the "Okay, what
's best for the company, what
makes the most sense for this moment and going
forward, right?" And not keep harping on the
same thing. What I always like to
talk to my team about is that I always like to
have different problems because
if we've been having the same problem for
months, damn, we have an
even bigger problem. I'm talking about bugs like that.  I'm
saying, "There's no problem with having bugs,
people. For me, the problem is if we
always have the same bug. The bug changing
means we're evolving, that
we're tinkering with things, you know?" It
serves two purposes,
and I didn't say why I had
difficulty, but bringing it to a
very tactical point, I think I'm
a very relational person, and I had
difficulty asserting myself. So,
bringing a strong opinion and maintaining it
was a difficulty. So I wanted to
base myself a lot on this, to put everyone
here, because, look, there's all
this evidence, these facts, there's no
reason for us not to discuss it. But I
also think that over time and in
leadership positions, I've learned to
sometimes put my vision more and
understand that, as a
professional, I have many experiences,
like, I've seen many things, I've seen
many situations. It's funny sometimes when
interviewing people, and the person is
working in a totally
different context, I say, "Oh, I've done this," "Oh,
I've done this other thing," "Oh, I've done something
that's very similar to this one," you
know? I think it's in these
moments that tangible things become
apparent in the end.  Like, when she's
well-intentioned and all that, she comes from
a well of all these experiences
you carry, right?
So, you make that clear, you
make it clear why you think that way
and what evidence you have
for it. You're not being
disrespectful, you're not burning
bridges. You're just saying, like,
with all my experience,
things I've seen, things I've studied, and
so on, this is what I think I have
evidence for, or I don't have
evidence for. And I think that's where
the tactical part comes in, what I was going to
say, which helps even in
product work, even if you don't
yet have that much experience, that
evidence, being hypothesis-driven
sometimes, which is, you have a
hypothesis that this solution here
solves this problem, that solves
this opportunity, that solves this
company metric. And then that's being
very opinionated, right? Right off the bat, I think
this is the solution for this whole chain
here, what am I going to do now? I'm going to
prove it now, from back to front. So
I'm going to look for evidence, premises
that I'm assuming here are true
or not, that I have to...  To prove it, man,
you don't need to create the best test in the
world. It's the basic calculation
we've talked about here several times, right? But
you can keep going back and forth. I feel
like I had difficulty with that; I
needed to make each step very
clear. And I've even been receiving
PES (Product Evaluation System) like, "Go deep right away, you
have experience in this, so what do
you think we should do here?"
And let's try to prove if this is really it
or not. We'll move much
faster if we go that way, you
know? And along those same lines, there's a
factor that I think is what you
said, which is experience. Because
sometimes you may not have that much
data for that
current context, but the time
you'll spend trying to delve deeper into that,
even in the
line of testing—well, testing in production,
man—makes sense. Like, we already
have a history here, so-and-so has
another history, let's combine these
things, it's better than nothing, you know? It
's better than nothing. So, we
already have a history, we have
experience, we have something, so we can
start from scratch.  Okay, let's start from here. Okay, let's go.
And that's it, right?
Of course, there's a product cycle,
which we haven't talked about
here in a while, but in the
product cycle—by the way, I was just looking at
my article on the
product cycle, it's been a year since it was published, and it continues to be
my most read article. We cite it in
every edition, it keeps
sending traffic there. But that's
why you're going to analyze the
product cycle, okay? This hypothesis here, this hypothesis
here, this hypothesis here—
which one is simpler? This one, let's go. Like, this one
has more data,
so let's go with this one. Okay, I don't
know what to say, okay? We put this one in, it didn't work.
Which one is the
other? The thing is, you align
people on the premises. I'll give a
very clear example here: I've
worked for many years with
subscription products, right? Esporte Interativo,
Pia, and Z1 itself had one that
wasn't exactly a subscription, but it
had many similar things. And I
'm in a subscription challenge on Hotmart
now, so I may not know
exactly everything.  The landscape of the
Hotmart business... But you know when you
know where to look, like, "If this is what's
wrong, it can only be this or
this thing here," you know? That's what I'm talking about, I
think I even mentioned it here. I was
explaining how a
subscription business works and breaking down the levers, and I
told the person I was
explaining it to, "From now on,
any subscription business you
see in your life works exactly
this way, you just have to understand the
details of that place." And in that
exploration, there I was with a pro designer
who is super senior, but she didn't
have that much experience with
subscription products, and I saw throughout this
process, as I was explaining to her,
like, "Oh, I'm saying this because this, this,
and this," you know? So, normally,
payment problems here, a
strong lever is communication, so it's a benchmark, a
place for us to look at, and so on. And I was
explaining the premises along the way, and
we were very aligned
when we arrived at the
final product we wanted, even though she did
n't have the same experience in
subscription work as me, how
we built this together, and
over time I...  Well, I'm saying
this because that's the premise. I
even stated it in the docs we were making. We'd
put things like, "The premise
is... we were very aligned."
So, it's that thing: we were both
looking at the same things, the same
elements, the same facts. So, we had
the same premises, that's it. There was
no way we couldn't be aligned, you
know? So that was it, it was really cool. And
I think to wrap things up here, which
we've also talked about in several other
episodes, she talks about
believing a lot in the idea that
feedback is a gift, but she
also says that it only works if it's two-way.
If it's only one side giving
feedback and the other isn't
comfortable giving feedback or,
anyway, doesn't want to give feedback
for whatever reason,
things probably won't work out
very well. She even gives a
tactical tip: when giving feedback,
ask the person what feedback
they have for you, because that opens up
space for the person to bring you things,
and then you reciprocate. That's the
feedback. Episode B, right? Episode B,
which generated a bait episode here, huh?
Good discussion, thanks Len.  Keep
bringing excellent guests
here to help us on the podcast.
But that's it, we discussed a lot,
but listen to it
firsthand because it's a great episode
[Music]. Let's
go PR, the products of the week. Tell me,
last week I spoke first,
this time I was ready and I'm already
seeing your product of the week on the
agenda. I can't believe it's going to be this, oh
great, critic, now
the product police, man. P, man,
mine is kind of a recommendation, kind of a close one here, which is
Stop Inbox. What is Stop Inbox?
It's basically an app, it's an
email inbox, but it's an
email inbox for you to receive newsletters, so
it gives you a specific email, you
register for the newsletters and receive them
in your inbox, then it has some features
to make it easier to read
and stuff, and that's the good part, I've been using it for a
long time, so it's an app that I really
like. What's the close part of the
thing here, man, they went offline, they were
offline for two or three days, and then I
said, damn.  Dude, I lost all
my newsletters. I have to
figure out why the app wouldn't even load. You know, there are
some that I know I follow and
stuff, but there are others that are
sporadic. You know, they arrive once a month and
you don't remember, and I thought, "Wow, man."
So I went to explore options, and I looked at
all of them, and they all had more or less the same
problem. I reached my limit and
thought, "Should I make my own
newsletter app to solve
these problems?" In the end, they
came back online, but I know that now I
need a backup. So if any of
you have a recommendation for a
good newsletter reading app, I'm
accepting it. And I'll just add a side note
here: I used Meg. I mentioned
last week that I was missing
my channel, man. It's really cool. I
even recorded it in a video because I
found the onboarding very good, like how it
does your initial setup. I thought it was really cool, like, "Hey, do
you want to receive
R$1 here?" See how it is, and so on. I found
the experience very good, very
practical, in fact, you send... man, I...  It
was a holiday, I was in Rio, so
I was on the beach there and we went to
get some mate and that's it, I went there.  "Hey man, I
just sent a message like, '
Oh, send this much to this Pix here, it's
very practical, man, it's for the practicality, it's
for the practicality, that's it, like, man, is
it a product or a feature, right? It's what
you said last week, in the end, it's a
set of apps, when
Itaú does this, I'll use it on
Itaú's messenger, you know? But man,
very cool, so guys from Meg,
if anyone hears this, I really liked your
onboarding, the initial setup,
congratulations, great product,
now tell me yours, mine was a
physical product, by the way, which is my
portable sauna, right man? The concept of this
product doesn't give you any... TR connected, now that it's a little
chilly, in the morning I exercise, man, I
go there, I exercise,
then I do a little sauna and damn,
success. Is this from the United States? This thing
wasn't brought, exactly. It's from Life Pro, we're
going to put it on our Stories, I'll
put 'import,' you can import it to
Brazil, or you... because I know
you bought it there and brought it. But..."  They
deliver to Brazil, it must be expensive, it must be, I don't know, there's
a business, there's a business
that only sells in the United States, sometimes
they deliver to other countries but not
to Brazil, which I really wanted to
buy but it's expensive too, it's the W
Sleep thing, you know what it is? No, man, if
you listen to foreign podcasts, they
spend an infinite amount of money on
ads for this thing, they advertise on
Marquis Brown's channel too, but man,
they have the mattress, they also have a comforter
that you can use on your
mattress, and man, it's a
technological mattress, so for example,
you can have different temperatures
on different sides of the bed, it
wakes you up with vibration and stuff at the time
that's right for your
sleep cycle, in the new version of the mattress, the
mattress reclines, so if you're
snoring at night, it reclines to
stop you from snoring, so it's a mattress that's everything, man, I'll see, I'm going to the
United States, this thing is yours, man,
I don't know how you didn't buy it.
I'll send you a mattress, I think it's
a big thing because it has
a condenser on the side, you
know?  Okay, so for someone who already brought a
portable sauna and a 3D printer, I
think this thing is bigger than
3D printing, man. I'm going to send it to you, I'm going to send it to you, man. I'd
love for you to buy it. If
you don't like it, I'll buy it from you, you know? Okay, so we'll
see what
people sent. This week, people
were like, "Fire," they sent a bunch, I think... you see, you see,
people
posting that they're watching the episode, it
encouraged... you see, the product cycle
too,
and Dan Leira sent the Mobilis,
Lucão sent the Nave Dasa, which pops up every now and then,
right guys? So, on the web, that's what
everyone here... This one is also top-notch, one of the
most used. Vel is Neu, he sent the
Web Diet to see what you're
eating, etc. Miram sent a web plugin
to skip the
Netflix intro, your button that does that already.
But hey, you don't even need to press the
button, the practicality of practicality,
like Meg did there, okay, fair enough.
Aina sent Waz, the Mand, I gave a
feature too.  YouTube Premium, that
's the smart download feature. This feature is
really good,
basically it takes what you
watch, what you save, what
you like, and it downloads
the videos from the channels you follow so
you can
watch them offline. Glauco sent a message
on Expresso, it's Won, he always
sends us messages and
content recommendations, and he sent
Pocket, which we talked about, including
when I was desperate
without my inbox. I asked Artur, "Do you use
any newsletter app?"
Henrique Boss sent Pocket, he said, "There's
an app there that
connects your notes and stuff,
so you
need it." He also sent Power Automate, and
Andrezinho said Spotify, he's a
dancer and he loves to send me videos on
Spotify and keep sending me
dancing videos. Look, you're a dancer too,
Artur, you dance? There are GIFs of you
dancing, dancing stickers. Yeah, but
it's just some private dances, that's
it.  As always, keep
sending us the products,
we love seeing what you're
sending! This week was really great,
lots of stuff! Keep sending them, it
's really
[Music]
good! So that's it, thanks FS! Don't forget to
like, share with your friends,
watch, listen until the end, and follow
us on social media, both on Instagram and
Twitter, on LinkedIn @arena
@x @ur Close comk, and comment on the posts
too, we post on LinkedIn, we have
Substack, and Spotify for
those who listen on Spotify, which is most
of our audience. You can comment
on the episode, listen and tell us what
you thought of the episode, let's continue the
conversation in the comments, I
think it's a good way for us to
exchange ideas, and that's it folks, listen up!
Next week too, next week there's more, thanks!
Next week there's news,
you promised, you promised the surprise!
Oh no, it's not, it's something else!
Well, next week we
have a special guest here, right? We're not
going to say who, but we've already
talked about it in several episodes here.  This
person commented on it, so
next week there will be a special guest appearance and
there's also some news, an announcement has to
be postponed, the announcement that has to be
postponed, exactly, but due to force majeure, it has to be
postponed, due to force majeure. But that's it, thanks,
thanks.